hello hello
um the situation is very difficult
because we see that humans are losing
trust in each
other and uh the order is collapsing
both within countries and also between
countries
and maybe the the most worrying thing is
that there is no leadership for Humanity
at the present moment because the
strongest country in the world United
States now openly says that it cares
mainly about making itself stronger even
at the expense of other
countries um and at this moment in
history what we need above all is to
have good leadership that will unite
Humanity instead of dividing it in order
to deal with both climate change and the
rise of artificial intelligence
now he's actually going back to a very
old view of the world for uh what he
basically says is that he views the
world in terms of strong and weak and he
expects the weak to obey the strong when
he blames Ukraine for the Russian attack
on Ukraine people say how can that be
how can he blame the ukrainians for the
Russian attack but in his mind the order
of the world is that the weak must obey
the strong and if the weak refuse the
demands of the strong and there is
conflict it is the fault of the weak not
the fault of the strong he feels the
same way like when he says that America
now wants to take Greenland so if
Denmark
refuses that if there is any conflict in
his mind this is because Denmark refused
Ed the American demand um so this view
of human Affairs is actually very very
old this is the old Imperial view that
expected always the strong to dominate
and the weak to obey them in recent
decades we have established a different
order in the world which is based more
on low and less on strength on power
even though there have been a lot of
conflicts and wars and I come from the
Middle East so I know it perfectly well
still it was the most peaceful period in
human history uh because there was one a
a a taboo which countries were not
allowed to break and this taboo that
strong countries cannot invade and
Conquer weaker countries just because
they are stronger and this taboo made
countries feel much safer which allowed
them to to spend less money on the
military on defense and instead spend
more on health care and education and
Welfare and so forth this was not some
fantasy this was actual reality which
you can see in government budgets for
most of
History the governments whether of
democracies or of dictatorships of
Empires or city states almost all
governments spent more than 50 % of
their budget on the military on soldiers
on warships on building fortresses and
castles in the early 21st century
countries felt so safe that the average
expenditure on the military was just
about six or 7% of the government budget
all over the world in contrast about 10%
of the budget was spent on Healthcare
this was the first time in human history
that governments spent more on health
care on nurses and doctors and hospitals
than they spent on the military on
soldiers and warships and
fortresses um and unfortunately this is
now changing uh with the Russian
invasion of Ukraine with uh uh the Trump
the policies of the Trump Administration
countries again feel unsecure they feel
the only thing that protects us against
Invasion and conquest by a stronger
country is if we have a bigger
military and countries in Europe
countries in East Asia and elsewhere
they suddenly feel that they cannot rely
anymore on the international order they
cannot rely anymore on America they have
to increase their military budgets build
bigger armies and of course if everybody
does it you'll have an arms race and the
situation will just keep
deteriorating um in some ways yes
because you know this turmoil and uh um
the the collapse of one order and the
creation of a different order this has
been going over for thousands of years
but there are differences this time and
the biggest difference is the rise of
artificial intelligence of
AI um because AI is different from every
previous technology in history it is not
a tool it is an
agent every previous technology whe whe
that people invented whether a printing
press a car a train an airplane this is
a tool in our hands that makes us more
powerful because we decide what to do
with it AI is an agent in the sense that
it can make decisions by itself and it
can invent new ideas by itself so an AI
weapon can decide by itself what to
attack and it can even invent new
weapons and new military strategies the
big question of of the present
historical moment is what happens when
we release Millions upon millions of
nonhuman agents which in many ways are
more intelligent than us and give them
the power to increasingly control our
economy the military uh the media we
already saw it in the field of
media that power is shifting from humans
to AIS you know previously if you go
back 50 years or 100 years so the most
important people in media are often the
editors that decide what to broadcast or
a newspaper editor decides what will be
on the front page of the newspaper
tomorrow so millions of people will read
it and this is what they'll be thinking
about this is what they'll be
discussing if you ask who are the most
important editors today
already today they are not human beings
they are the AIS the
algorithms that manage the social media
newsfeeds who is the editor of Twitter
or Tik Tok or the Facebook Newsfeed it
is not a human being it is an
AI and part of the reason for the
collapse of trust between humans and the
crisis of democracies all over the world
is that we've given control of the
conversation to a non-human
intelligence now democracy is ESS in
essence is a conversation between humans
dictatorship is a dictate one person
dictates everything democracy is in when
lots of people talk with each other
discuss argue sometimes and try to reach
a decision together but now this this
conversation is increasingly managed
by a non-human intelligence which comes
between us we mostly interact through
digital means which are managed by Ai
and we often also interact with
non-human Bots and algorithms and this
is destroying the trust between humans
so we have this H paradoxical situation
that we have the most sophisticated
information technology in hisory history
and people are losing the ability to
talk with each
other we should be very clear about the
difference between the freedom of human
beings and the freedom of
algorithms um if I publish something
online on Facebook or Twitter or Tik Tok
as a human being this should be
protected except in very extreme cases
we should not ban or censor the speech
of human beings but the problem on
social media is not the human speech it
is the decisions of
algorithms humans produce a lot of
content you have millions of people
writing things H uh uh taking videos
taking pictures posting it online then
the algorithms decide to promote to
spread certain information and not other
and very often the algorithms decide to
deliberately spread fake news and
conspiracy theories and Hate
why because they want to increase user
engagement they want more people to
spend more time on the platform because
this is how the social media company
makes money and they discovered that
hatred and anger and greed they create
engagement if you want to keep people
for longer on the platform you spread
anger um and this is not protected by
freedom of speech because this is
decisions of
algorithms when an algorithm decides
that from all the different content that
humans produce it will promote some
angry post this is a decision of a
nonhuman and it is not should not be
protected by freedom of speech similarly
a lot of uh uh again the hatred and
anger online is actually produced and
spread by Bots you go online and you
read something that makes you very angry
and you think you're are reading the
words of another human being or you are
seeing content produced by another human
being but actually it was produced by
Bots and Bots don't have freedom of
speech so again we should be very
careful not to censor human beings but
governments should ban Bots and AIS from
pretending to be human beings if I go
online I need to know am I talking with
another human or am I talking with an AI
similarly governments should have
regulations about the decisions that
social media algorithms take if the
algorithms deliberately spread
misinformation and fake news and
conspiracy theories this should be
banned again not the content produced by
the humans but the deliberate spread of
certain content by the
algorithms so when the internet first
came came the main metaphor that people
had was the web like a single web that
connects
everybody but now the main metaphor
became the Cocoon like different people
are entrapped and case inside the
different information cocon and they see
completely different realities so they
can no longer understand and communicate
with each
other um and this danger is only
becoming worse because previously AIS
could
spread content produced by humans now
more and more content is actually
produced by the
AIS and we have no experience with such
a situation for thousands of years all
the cultural products that we
encountered were were the product of the
human mind of the human imagination all
the The Poetry all the books we read all
the theater television paintings
everything was created by the human mind
now we live in a world in which more and
more of the cultural products that
surround us comes from a nonhuman
intelligence and um we have no
experience no idea how to manage such a
situation so what we need Above All Else
else is simply
time we need to slow down the pace of of
development of AI of change just simply
to give Human Society time to
adapt and part of it is teaching people
how for instance to tell the difference
between reliable and unreliable
information this is the job
traditionally of schools of universities
uh for instance in history department
where I teach what we teach students you
don't teach them to remember just facts
from the past like which battle was in
which year or all names of Kings this is
not what you learn in history lesson
what you learn is how to tell the
difference between reliable information
and unreliable information now this
takes time and what happens now is we
are flooded by by more and more types of
information that we never encountered
before like previously if you saw a
video you could believe what you saw
because there was no way to fake it now
everybody knows that it's very easy to
create fake videos with AI and we don't
know how to tell the difference between
reliable and unreliable so it's not an
impossible task but it simply we simply
need time in order to understand what we
are facing and to educate people
accordingly I I don't it's very
difficult to predict I don't know but
what we see is you know for instance
they are attacking the human
administrators and bureaucrats and they
are saying we are against bureaucracy
but at the same time they are giving
power to digital bureaucracies to to AIS
to
algorithms uh so we see a shift in power
from Human institutions and human
officials to digital institutions and to
AI
and this is very dangerous because
whereas human officials are accountable
to people and we understand to some
extent how they function uh AI
bureaucrats are far less accountable
it's much more difficult to understand
how they function so um and we saw it
with what happened in social media like
with Twitter but
if if you have a newspaper which is
edited by a human being you can at least
try to understand the policies of that
editor but on Twitter which is edited by
algorithms it's algorithms that decide
what to promote and what to see it's
much more difficult to understand what
is the logic of the algorithm that
decides what millions of people would be
reading and would be talking
about a
yes I mean first of all what is
bureaucracy bureaucracy is the way that
we manage the flow of information in
large systems that all human societies
are based on large systems whether it's
hos hospitals or armies or
universities and you have in each of
these institutions people who manage the
flow of information for instance in the
Department of Treasury people collect
information on income and on
taxes and this is essential for the
functioning of every institution there
is no institution that can exist without
these bureaucrats people sometimes tend
to think oh bureaucracy is bad but it's
not it's essential for it's like the
nerve cells of a body that that connect
if you have say a hospital with all the
doctors and nurses so yes the doctors
and nurses they take care of our health
they save our life but there would be no
hospital without the bureaucrats that
collect money and pay salaries and also
collect medical information and decide
on protocols and policies and how many
hours everybody would work so this is
the bureaucracy
now until today the all the bureaucrats
were human
beings now
increasingly this job is being taken
over by
AIS um so for instance if you think
about the power of a human
lawyer a lawyer is powerful only inside
a bureaucratic system if you take the
most the the the best lawyer in Japan
and drop her in the middle of the
Savannah she has no power she's less
powerful than any monkey or any elephant
or lion but inside the
bureaucracy she might be one of the most
powerful people in the country because
she understands the flow of information
she knows the
laws now ai no human being can know all
the laws of a country but AI can know
all the laws of a country it can
remember everything the same thing in
the financial
system no human Banker can follow all
the ups and downs of all the trades in
the stock
exchange but an AI can do that so when
we talk about power the the rise of AI
sometimes people imagine it like a
Hollywood science fiction scenario of a
robot Rebellion like the robots
rebelling in the streets going and
shooting people this is very unlikely to
happen the way that AI really gains
power in the world is within the
bureaucracies so you go to a bank to ask
for a loan for a mortgage it's not a
human Banker deciding whether to give
you a loan it's an AI that collects all
the information about you and makes a
decision in the military increasingly
it's not human Intelligence Officers
that choose which targets to bomb we saw
in the recent war between Israel and
Hamas and Israel andah that increasingly
it's AIS deciding which targets to bomb
uh you apply to a a a company to get a
job it's an AI deciding whether to give
you a job even in the legal system we
see in many places that AIS are
replacing judges in giving sentences to
people determining how like if somebody
is guilty of some crime the AI
determines what will be the punishment
so this is an AI bureaucracy the H tasks
that were once performed by human
lawyers and accountants and officials
and judges are increasingly performed by
AIS
so in recent years we saw this big
battle for
attention in cyers space in social media
that everybody trying to gain your
attention because there be so much
information so much content and you
don't have much time so there is a a a
this attempt to gain your
attention now the front is shifting from
attention to intimacy because AI are
learning not just how to grab human
attention but how to win their
friendship how to develop a relationship
with a human being
uh an AI that collects a lot of
information about you that you talk with
every day maybe that can analyze your
facial expression your tone of voice it
can come to know you very very
intimately and it also knows how to
press your emotional buttons and we
already see that humans are developing
friendships and even romantic
relationships with
AIS um this has advantages in some
situations but it also has dangers one
danger is that then it can be used to
manipulate people if you want to
convince people to change their
political opinion to vote for a
particular party to buy a particular
product um if you gain their intimacy
this is the easiest way to do it so
maybe you have an AI friend which you
think is your friend but is actually
serving
some big Corporation or government and
in that way they can manipulate your
views your preferences much more easily
than in the past another problem is that
intimacy with AI or relationship with AI
is really a fake relationship it's not
real intimacy because real intimacy is
not just for somebody to care about my
feelings I need to simultaneously care
about their
feelings and AIS don't have any feelings
at least not now I don't know what will
happen in future at present they can
simulate they can fake feelings but they
don't really feel anything you know if
an AI wins in a game it doesn't feel
happy if it loses it doesn't doesn't
feel sad so if humans become more and
more involved in relationships with AIS
they will lose maybe the most important
ability of human beings which is to care
about the feelings of others and this is
another reason why I think that it's
very important for governments to have a
clear law against uh uh fake humans
against counterfeiting humans it's okay
for AIS to interact with us on condition
that they disclose that they are AIS if
you're interacting with somebody online
and maybe they become your friend you
need to know whether this is an AI or
whether this is a real human
being it depends on the decision we make
um I talk a lot about the threats of AI
but obviously there is enormous positive
potential as well AI can help us create
the best health care system in history
the best education system with every
child getting an AI tutor that can help
them educate better AI can help us deal
with climate change if you think about
car accidents so every year more than a
million people die in car accidents most
of them are called by human error like
somebody falling asleep at the wheel or
somebody drinking alcohol and driving if
we have self-driving vehicles and we
give AIS to drive the vehicle we could
save more than a million lives every
year so there is a lot of positive
potential and uh the question is not how
to stop the development of AI but rather
how to make it
safe and democracies of course should
also continue to develop AI because this
would be the key to Future economic
prosperity and to Future power uh at the
same time they need to preserve their
democratic values and
institutions and there are ways to do it
um as I I just mentioned one of the most
important thing is to uh uh forbid AIS
from pretending to be human beings
democracy is a conversation between
humans to maintain the Democratic
conversation we need to maintain trust
in other humans we need to know are we
talking with another human being or are
we being manipulated by a bot or by an
AI and this is a relatively easy
regulation an easy law to pass the same
way that countries forbid fake money
counterfeit money they should also
forbid counterfeit humans
uh this is a very big
danger again um the big advantage of
democracy over dictatorship is that
democracies have self-correcting
mechanisms what does it mean that within
the system itself within the country
itself there are mechanisms to identify
and correct the mistakes of the
country's own institutions of the
government in a dictatorship if a
dictator makes a wrong decision bad
policy there is no way to to identify
and correct it because the dictator
controls the media so the media would
always say that the dictator is right
the courts are subject also to the
dictatorship so they will never rule
against the government maybe they hold
elections but this is just a ceremony
it's a fake elections they rig the
results in advance so if the dictator
makes a big mistake there is no way for
the country to correct it a democracy in
contrast is characterized by strong
self-correcting mechanisms
you give power to somebody for say four
years but after four years people they
they give the the power back and people
can make a different decision they can
say oh this government this party made
bad decisions now we try something else
but elections by themselves are never
enough because they can be rigged there
are elections in Russia there are
elections in North Korea which are of
course rigged if you don't have any
other mechanism besides elections if the
government for instance controls all the
media so how would people even know that
the government made a
mistake if the courts are subject to the
government so again you you and and the
government say decides to uh uh
ban its opponents from running in the
elections so you cannot go to the courts
and have the courts rule against the
government they will always rule in
favor of the government so to maintain a
democracy you need more than just
elections you need several
self-correcting mechanisms that keep
each other in check what we see in many
countries in recent years is that even
if somebody came to power democratically
again in democracy you give power to
somebody for say four years on condition
that they give it back but there is a
big problem what if they don't want to
give it back what if they use their
power to then take over the media and
the courts and the universities and then
rig the elections this has been
happening for instance in Venezuela
where Hugo Chavez Rose to power
originally in Democratic elections but
then they took over all these
institutions and recently there was an
election and people voted
overwhelmingly against uh Maduro
Chavez's successor but because Duro
controls the election committee and the
media and the courts he said no I didn't
lose the election I won and this is this
danger threatens every democracy so
citizens of democracies need to
constantly be aware of this danger and
uh uh protect the institutions from such
takeover
I'm not an expert on American politics
or American society so I'm not familiar
with every action and and and its
consequences again I I think
that in a
democracy people have the right to try
different policies on condition that
they maintain the basic self-correcting
mechanisms so if they make a mistake
later they can change again as long as
this is maintained this is the most
important thing
no this is this this is something again
very important that in a democracy you
have to protect the rights of the
minority not just the right of the
majority of course the majority that won
the elections it now has the right to
form a government and to decide on a
very wide range of policies foreign
policy domestic policy decide to have
more taxes less taxes all of this is
within the right of the majority but
there are certain minority rights that
in a democracy should not be harmed even
if most people voted for for the other
party um so one thing that is very clear
is that minorities should retain the
right of freedom of speech that they can
voice different opinions than the
majority this is part of the democratic
process again if you take that away then
this is no longer a
democracy then it's becomes very
difficult to oppose the government to
replace the government in the next
elections also it is very clear that it
undermines the scientific research
because in science very often U you need
to hear new opinions new voices this is
where scientific breakthrough come from
everybody agrees on a certain theory on
a certain view of the world and then
some people say wait we think maybe it
could be different and this is where
scientific breakthrough always come from
um so if you don't allow minorities to
express their opinions you stop the
development of science
uh there is a again a General problem
with information is that information is
not
truth there are two very different
things most information is actually
Fiction and Fantasy and lies and
errors why is fiction much more common
than Truth for three reasons first of
all the truth is costly whereas fiction
is very cheap if you want to write a
truthful account of anything of history
of physics of what happened today you
need to invest time and money and effort
to collect evidence and analyze it and
fact check it this is a huge effort it's
very costly fiction on the other hand is
very cheap you just write anything you
want you don't need to make any effort
the truth is often complicated because
reality is complicated if you want to
understand the truth about epidemics or
or about economic crisis this is very
complicated process fiction in contrast
can be made very very simple finally the
truth is often unpleasant or painful
there are many things which we don't
want to know about ourselves about our
country about the universe because they
are unpleasant for us but this is the
truth fiction in contrast can be made as
attractive as you would like it to be
very
flattering so in this competition
between costly and complicated and
unpleasant truth and cheap simple
attractive fiction fiction wins so most
of the information in the world is
fiction if we want to get to the truth
we need to make a special effort we need
special institutions like the
media like universities like research
centers that they make the special
effort or like courts in a court of law
it takes a lot of time and effort and
energy to get to the
truth um
so I I hear a lot of people who say that
no we just need to release all barriers
to the FL to the flow of information and
the truth will automatically rise to the
surface exactly the opposite
happens uh if you just flood the world
with information the truth will sink to
the bottom under all this ocean of
fantasy and fiction and and and lies
[Music]
um we should remember that humans have
faced similar problems for thousands of
years and we have developed mechanisms
to deal with these problems this is not
the first time that we find ourselves in
this in this situation and what you see
over thousands of years that humans
actually learned how to communicate and
trust each other more and more a 100,000
years ago humans lived in tiny bands of
a few dozen individuals and they could
not trust anybody outside their band
over thousands of years we have
developed mechanisms that allow millions
and even billions of people to
communicate to agree on certain facts to
accept certain laws and we now have
Nations like Japan with more than 100
million citizens and we have a global
trade Network connecting more than 8
billion people on the planet and even
though we don't know most of the other
people like in Japan maybe you know a
100 people maybe you know a thousand
people you don't know
99% of the other citizens nevertheless
you can trust them and you cooperate on
so many things and people also trust
foreigners outside their country much of
the food that we eat the clothes we wear
the medicine that protect our life from
disease it is invented and produced by
foreigners on the other side of the
world so humans have a very impressive
capacity to develop trust and to agree
on on facts and on common rules and laws
what is happening right now is that we
have a new information technology that
undermines all the mechanisms that we
have developed over thousands of years
because over thousands of years all of
these human interactions and
Communications they were done between
one human and another human now in most
of the interactions between people you
have a computer in the middle most human
interactions in the world even today is
done through computers and smartphones
with the mediation of algorithms and AI
and Bots and we don't have any
experience in how to build trust in how
to communicate effectively in such a
situation um for that we need time to
adapt to the new condition
[Music]
well it's easy to find fault with the
old order people like Trump and his
supporters they point to many of the
problems of the old order and in some
cases they are correct uh every order
has its own
problems but they don't offer any clear
alternative they talk a lot about
everything that was wrong with the old
liberal order they don't have a clear
alternative for how can the world
function in a different and better way
their vision is uh of each country being
like a
Fortress each country having huge walls
against trade against immigration
against foreign cultural ideas and um
okay so let's say that you have these h
a network of fortresses in the world how
they will how will they live together
each Fortress will probably want a bit
more territory and security and
prosperity for itself at the expense of
the neighbors each country will say I
want this territory also I want uh uh uh
the trade agreement to be more in my
favor I want a bigger Army to protect
myself and the other countries will say
the same so what mechanism does Trump
and people like him offer for how to get
the different fortresses to agree on
anything what values what Norms what
laws will regulate relations between
them
if you don't have any Global values or
any Global laws then the only law is the
low of violence of
strength and then again each Fortress
would want a bigger Army to be stronger
and this obviously leads to war because
there is no way to reach an agreement
between these rival
fortresses we have been in this
situation for thousands of years until
the middle of the 20 20th century this
was the normal State of Affair if you
live in Japan in the Middle Ages or if
you live in the Middle East in ancient
times or in Europe in the 19th century
you know that at any moment the
neighbors might invade and Conquer your
land and Annex it and make a bigger
Empire for
themselves um and this caused
governments as I said before to spend
most of their budget on the military to
protect themselves we have finally
escaped this difficult situation in the
late 20th century in the early 21st
century with the rise of the global
liberal order which is based not on
violence and the military but is based
on International laws and common Global
values of human rights of course this
order was far from perfect there are
many problems I come from the Middle
East I know perfectly well it was not a
perfect order and it was violated many
times but still it was better than
anything that humans have produced
before and the place to see it is in
government budgets that the military
budget went down from more than 50% to
about 6 or 7% whereas the health care
and education and Welfare budgets they
went up and the question to ask uh uh
the people who ose the global liberal
order
is what is your alternative how can you
protect the peace and prosperity of
humankind if you don't believe in any
Global values or in any Global rules
except force and violence
H I try to be realist you know um
pessimists they say it's going to be bad
no matter what we do and this causes
people to to lose any sense of
responsibility or initiative because
they feel n no matter what we do it will
be bad and optimists suffer from the
opposite problem they feel that it will
be okay no matter what we do it will be
okay so this again doesn't make people
feel responsible I think we need a
middle path of being realist of being
very aware of the dangers that we are
facing from war from the rise of AI from
climate change but at the same time also
being uh uh mindful
that we have the capacity
to solve all these problems we don't
need it it's not impossible problems and
it's not that we need to wait for some
God or from some miracle to solve them
it is within our power and this should
make people more
responsible and this is true of each one
of the big problems we face again if you
look at climate change for
instance um Humanity has the scientific
knowledge and it has the economic
resources necessary to prevent
catastrophic climate change do we
actually do that I hope so but I don't
know so realism is acknowledging the
danger but also acknowledging our
ability to overcome the danger and then
taking responsible decisions uh uh to
prevent the the the bad
outcomes similarly if you look at AI I
don't think that AI is an impossible
problem what what I see when I talk to
the people that lead the AI Revolution
is a paradox a paradox of
trust when I ask them about the dangers
of AI and about why they're moving so
quickly so almost everybody tells me
that yes we are aware of the dangers we
know it would be safer to move more
slowly to invest more in safety but we
cannot slow down because we we cannot
trust the other humans if we slow down
but the other company or the other
country doesn't slow down they will win
the AI race and they will dominate the
world and we cannot trust them so we
must move faster and you talk with their
competitors they say the same thing so
because humans cannot trust each other
they move faster and
faster then I ask them the second
question okay you can't trust the other
humans so you are racing ahead do you
think you will be able to trust the
super intelligent AIS that you're
developing and they answer yes we think
we'll be able to trust the AIS and this
is such a paradox why is it that you
distrust other humans so much but you
have such confidence in
AIS the strange thing is we have
thousands of years of experience with
other humans we know that humans
sometimes lie we know that humans crave
power but we also have mechanisms for
building trust with them with AIS we
have no experience we have no idea what
kind of lies and tricks and goals AIS
might develop we have no idea what
happens when you release millions of
super intelligent AIS into the world so
I hope
that instead of focusing all our energy
and resources on just building more and
more intelligent AIS we will first of
all build more trust with other humans
if we can regain trust between humans
then it will be easy to develop AI in a
safe way
[Music]
are
a
well um building trust doesn't mean to
be
naive in many situations you have good
reasons to distrust somebody when
President selinski says I don't trust
the
Russians what if we sign an agreement
and two years later Russia invades again
and tries to conquer Ukraine zalinsky
has very good reasons to distrust Putin
and to distrust the Russians because
they've already done some terrible
things and they have said openly that
they aim to conquer the whole of Ukraine
so I'm not saying to have blind
trust but in many situations when you
don't have a a a clear evidence that
somebody is plotting against
you uh until somebody does something
against you I think you should give them
the benefit of the doubt what happens
today very often is that somebody says
something or somebody does something
which can be interpreted in several
different ways and people immediately go
for the worst interpretation
possible and I think that to build trust
first of all we need to be more generous
and charitable in our attitude to other
people as long as they didn't do
something which very clearly indicates
their bad intentions we should not
immediately assume that they have bad
intentions
and um we should again maybe I give an
example from my country from Israel so
after the attack of the 7th of October a
lot of Israelis felt that that's it you
can never trust the Arabs anymore we
have no faith in any possibility of
Peace look what they did but you can
look at the events of the 7th of October
from a different perspective which
actually can give you some hope and
sound trust in other people think about
all the things that didn't happen on the
7th of October yes Hamas attacked Israel
in a in a very cruel way but Hamas had
no peace agreement with Israel there was
war between Kamas and Israel so it's not
such a big surprise that Kamas attacked
Israel at the same time Egypt which had
a peace agreement with Israel the peace
agreement was maintained is Egypt did
not attack Israel Jordan had a peace
agreement with Israel and the peace
agreement also was maintained Jordan did
not attack Israel the Palestinian
Authority which had various also
agreements with Israel did not attack
Israel the Arab citizens of Israel out
of 10 million Israelis also about two
million more than two million are Arabs
Hamas wanted them to attack their Jewish
neighbors they didn't attack their
Jewish neighbors actually many Arab
Israelis came to help their Jewish
Neighbors on the 7th of October and
afterwards so you can look at at this
terrible thing that happened and
actually reach an opposite conclusion
from you can't trust Arabs you can reach
the conclusion that look all the people
that Israel had agreements with
maintained the trust so the conclusion
should be we need more agreements
because the agreements actually
work this is just an example of how in a
different mindset you can look at the
same situation and develop distrust or
you can look at it and develop more
trust in people and it doesn't always
work we should be realistic we shouldn't
be naive sometimes you put your trust in
somebody and they break it but most of
the
time humans are live up to their
agreement humans most of the time humans
do obey the laws and the rules and we'
have seen it over thousands of years of
history as I said earlier a 100 thousand
years ago humans lived in tiny bands of
just a few dozen individuals they
couldn't trust anybody outside their
band over thousands of years we have
managed to build more and more
trustworthy networks so that today uh a
again we can trust complete strangers to
grow our food to produce our medicines
it's not just a fantasy or a blind faith
it's actually the main direction of
history is for more trust between humans
and this is something that we should
reflect on you know too many people they
they read
history um and they focus on all the
crimes and
injustices of the past and as a result
they feel very anxious about the
present but actually when you read
history I think that the most amazing
thing about the human past is not all
the crimes and injustices but the
cooperation between people and people's
ability to build these trustworthy
relationships and maybe one last thought
on that is that this is true not just of
History also of
biology um to survive you need fear and
you need anxiety to some extent because
fear protects you from outside danger
but no animal can survive only on fear
trust is more important than fear every
time you take something from the outside
and put it inside yourself it's a small
gesture of trust in the universe every
time we breathe you know if if you think
that oh everything outside me is
dangerous I don't want to bring anything
from outside inside myself so you close
your mouth and you close your nose and
you die within one minute because you
cannot survive every time we breathe we
show a little trust in the
universe we take air from outside in and
this gives us life and it is the same
all the way you know to entire countries
and entire nations that if you look at
what makes your life possible much of it
came from outside the country not just
you know food if if you think about you
know people like to eat chocolate
chocolate was originally domesticated in
South America it came from outside if
you like your chocolate sweet so sugar
was domesticated for the first time in
New Guinea so you have to be thankful
for the people of New Guinea who
domesticated it if you think about
technology so much of it came from
outside even
religion um you know all the Christians
in the world Christianity originated in
the Middle East Buddhism originated in
India if you think about your life and
you think I only want to uh use the food
the ideas the inventions of my country
country then your life will be very very
poor if not
impossible a
[Music]
um yeah AI is something that is
unprecedented because
it's as I said in the beginning it's not
a tool it is an agent it can make
decisions by itself it can invent new
ideas by itself and it will soon be more
intelligent than us in most Fields even
today in narrow Fields AI is more
intelligent in 10 years or 20 years AI
will probably be more intelligent in all
Fields it will be better doctor better
Banker better Soldier than
us so we need to
appreciate what makes humans valuable
other than
intelligence and there is something that
makes human humans valuable which is
more important than intelligence and
this is
consciousness uh intelligence is the
ability to solve problems and to attain
goals like you play chess you want to
win the game you need intelligence for
that consciousness is the ability to
feel things like pain and pleasure and
love and hate people tend to confuse the
two because in humans and also in other
animals intelligence and Consciousness
go together we adopt goals in life and
we solve problems based on our feelings
so it's difficult for us to see the
difference between intelligence and
Consciousness but AI at least so far has
very high intelligence but zero
Consciousness as far as we know AI
doesn't feel anything it can pretend to
feel things it can fool us it can make
us imagine that it has feelings but as
far as we know it has no feelings if it
wins a game of chess it doesn't feel
happy if it loses it doesn't feel sad
and what is ultimately important about
life is not intelligence it's
Consciousness it's pain and pleasure
it's suffering and happiness this is
what is really important about life this
is what ethics is all about so yes we uh
we can use AI to reduce misery to
increase happiness but
ultimately what is really important is
the feelings of humans and of other
animals uh maybe the future AIS will
also develop feelings will also develop
Consciousness we don't know uh the the
biggest mystery in science is still the
mystery of Consciousness we don't
understand how the interaction between
billions of neurons in the mind in the
brain how does this produce a feeling of
Love or a feeling of pain we don't know
so we because of that we also don't know
whether you can do the same thing in
computers in AIS maybe we'll find out in
the future and if it happens then AIS
will also be conscious beings and we
will have to think very carefully about
our relationships with them but until
that
moment the we should it should be very
clear that what is important is
consciousness more than intelligence and
this is why what is important is is the
human beings who can feel pain and love
and not the super intelligent
[Music]
AI yes again so far we are familiar with
Consciousness with feelings only in
bodies and there is so much attention
giv to intelligence But ultimately human
beings are embodied beings we cannot
exist without a body uh the brain is
just one part of the body and we are the
whole body and again this is another big
difference between us and AI that so far
a eyes have no bodies they are just
programs they are just software in
computers
and I think that also in education
systems we need to give more importance
because of that to the body and to
feelings and Consciousness and not focus
only on the development of intellect
because if the whole focus is just on
developing intellect we are bound to
lose to the AI
