[Music]
why are we feeding our kids crap this
has got to stop up to 70% of your
children's calories are Ultra processed
foods these refined sugars starches and
Seed oils are literally destroying your
child's brain when you get a chicken
McNugget classified as a nutrient-dense
food or a french fried classified as a
vegetable we have a problem after many
months of searching I stumbled on a
school that is doing it right it's an
amazing organization called School of
lunch where a small group of volunteers
developed an incredible training program
that is literally going to spread around
the United States and around the world
today we're going to interview the
founder Hillary Boon which they call the
lunch lady tell me briefly your story
how you gotten into the position that
you're in right now well it was really
through my own health journey and my
family's health Journey that I ventured
into becoming a lunch lady never in my
wildest dreams did I imagine that I'd be
there but here we are you know from in
my own infertility to having five kids
and with various issues from eczema to
epilepsy and speech delays whatnot and
then a husband with cancer a father with
Alzheimer's disease ultimately our
cancer Journey brought us from
Massachusetts to California where we
landed in this small little mountain
town in Los Angeles and the the school
there aligned completely with um the My
Philosophy around food and how I had
healed my family and I was all in and
then as the school grew they outsourced
the food and when I that's when I
stepped in and said
this is not aligned with my beliefs and
how nature intended for us to to eat and
so I stepped in as this s coordinator
and the consultant to the lunch lady and
then halfway through the school year I
was given the keys to the kitchen and um
it was almost like the universe was like
here you go girl like take the keys and
show what's possible so I got my foot in
the door and um decided to just show
what's possible and here we are almost a
decade in I've been looking a long time
for um some type of program out there
someone that's doing it right in the
school system and I couldn't find
anything and then I stumbled on your
site I'm like what the heck this is
amazing so I'm pulling up now just
pictures of the types of meals that
you're serving these kids and uh it
looks like you know you're doing
traditional food I know it's not
completely low car but you're soaking
the grains soaking the seeds getting rid
of certain things that can interfere
with digestion uh sauerkraut Oregan
Meats grass-fed meat from local farms
incredible I mean if I would have lived
on this food growing up things would
have been a lot better believe me yeah
absolutely I mean it really does come
down to to the quality and also
the that that connection to our food and
our local food system we're Source 80 to
85% of our foods from our local food
system and when I had my you know switch
flipped when I was fat free and fell for
all that propaganda when I saw how
traditionally you know across the globe
cultures were thriving free of disease
and studying their diets much like the
work of Dr Weston a price my eyes were
opened and I was just like wow this this
totally makes sense and I've been duped
my whole life and through our journey on
the gaps diet as a family and I wrote a
cookbook of the heal your gut cookbook I
understood the gut brain and the gut
Body Connection and how we're so out of
balance it's about that nutrient density
we have their stomachs for six hours a
day that's 30% of a kids meals across
the year so we have a massive
opportunity to make a difference in the
trajectory of their health you know
imagine a 5-year-old being fed this way
all the way up until they graduate what
type of um effects is it creating either
in a child's ability to learn Focus
their mood the very first year we
started we did a little video
documentary on it and unprompted this
little sixth grade kid said I used to
feel like this up and down all day long
and now I just feel like this and I was
like my jaw Dr I was just like that's it
that's our 302 commercial that's what
mean these kids they they know what it
feels like to feel terrible but they
that's their Norm right and so when all
of a sudden they're given foods that
feel good and are properly absorbed and
digested they just feel even and steady
so we see kids engaged and happy and
joyful and teachers are also
participating so they're alongside these
kids as mentors eating the same foods
and then they're returning back to the
classroom together satiated and and um
and satisfied you know I think that's
the biggest thing is like especially
being fat free forever I was like never
satisfied and when you have you know
proper amounts of protein and fats like
good saturated fats you're just you're
satisfied I reflect back on my kids so
they're all over the age of 30 right now
so that was 30 years ago so I remember
you know trying to force my daughter in
the car she didn't want to go to school
but this whole thing was like a blood
sugar issue that's all it was I knew
nothing about nutrition I wish I can go
back in time because if I would have
known what I know now it would have been
a game Cher with their their mood their
ability to remember and learn these
little kids are you know having their
light bulbs turned on and you know their
cells are all like woo you know happy
and and they're going home and Reporting
back and saying like you know the school
food mom can you make food like Miss
Hillary or can you make sour croud and
the parents are Awakening right and so
it's it's really cool because then we
bring the parents and for parents at
lunch and introduce them to what we're
doing and that's what needs to happen
because parents just don't know and
schools don't know so it takes a
dedicated you know Army of chefs who are
going to show up every day and I think
it's like basically the coolest job in
the world and that's what I want
to spark within like people who are
graduating from culinary school or um
you know register dietitians
nutritionists who are like wanting to
make a change like what better place to
be able to make a a lasting change than
to dive into a school system and get
these kids really young but what you're
doing you took it one step further you
developed a training program to teach
other schools other Chefs of how to do
this right you know as we went along and
I saw the changes in the teachers and
the parents and the kids and everybody
wanting more information I was just like
everyone needs to know this it's not
only school systems but it's hospitals
and churches and community centers like
just do whatever you can do to get this
message wherever your passion lies but
obviously school lunches right now is
just so hot and so huge and the
opportunity is like right now my
question is why isn't this in the entire
school system because we've been trying
to get this dietary food guideline thing
change for many many years and it's
going to take some work to do that but
you're you're going after a different
part you're going after Grassroots the
reason why it's not spreading is because
you have a very small group of people
volunteers including yourself trying to
do this on a shoestring budget which is
like no budget and I'm like what like no
one's funing you of course you know we
don't want like big food to fund you but
you
just you're you're not expanding because
you're just um you don't have the
resources to be able to keep up because
I know the demand is really high people
want to learn this but it's just like
you only have a few people I'm not a
money driven person and I can pite you
in the butt I guess but it's really just
been about passion and vision for me and
seeing it every day and being in the
work with my own kids and doing this for
my kids and for the community and um but
we're at a point right now where it's
apparent that the world needs us you
know this vision and this Mission can't
just stay on this little mountain top
into P California it needs to be you
know it needs to go it needs to go I you
know I I can and I can only do so much
right we are just like a skeleton crew
and so we need the support to you know
to get this message out to the masses
and to show people that other way
because once they see it I know people
will gravitate towards it because it
just makes sense it's the way we evolve
to eat as humans right it's the way
we've been eating for Millennia you know
until this industrialization and Ultra
processed foods came in this is the way
we lived and thrived free of disease and
this is what everybody ultimately wants
for their children right so we need to
make videos we need to make toolkits
because what happens is people get
trained but then they're they are back
in the system as the lone soldier right
so they need support and they need that
those continued resources to keep them
going and then we need this the kids for
the schools the school you know the
superintendent an enlightened
superintendent can do a lot of things
but most of them don't know right so
they need to see what's possible and
need to know the why and they need to
hear it from people that have done it
and that it is possible because there's
so many barriers to entry for them
there's so much Nuance with every school
I've always said like I can't change a
million schools but I can train a
million people because every school has
their own issues so you want the people
that are passionate about that school
and are going to dive in and pull apart
what needs to change to make that
program successful so we really just
need we need the support you know I'm
humbly asking because I just believe so
whole edly that we're at a moment in you
know Humanity where our children are so
sick that it's a it's a time you know
like we can't keep going the way we're
going and we have this traction so it's
like let's go I want to get behind I
want to actually help you as well I want
to I know you have a GoFundMe account
we'll we'll put that link down below but
I'm going to help you and uh my
followers are going to help you in fact
I'm going to ask them right now to flow
something anything to help uh support
what you guys are doing because you need
a lot of res resources you need staff
you need uh promotional M materials you
need to have more people so you can
actually have an army of trainers so we
can actually make a dent those of you
that are watching now if you can flow
something to this anything we'd really
appreciate it because uh I'm personally
going to help but we need a lot of
people to help out to give you guys
support because what you're doing is
strictly on purpose and uh I want to get
behind that so I mean this is just
amazing well thank you so much I mean
it's I do believe you know the power of
social media and that my message can go
instantly you know that's what's the
blessing of of technology and social
media is that you know once that
momentum gets going um a spark can you
know ignite so many people and I just
believe people are craving this
information and you don't have to be
sick the body will heal you know this
isn't just about our children but it's
about our children's children you know
we want these kids to be giving birth to
a healthy next generation of kids and to
understand that they have agency over
that we have all this money we have the
worst outcomes and we have the doctor
right in the center okay and they're
diagnosing but they're not factoring in
food as part of their evaluation they're
just omitting that piece of data right
and then we have the junk food industry
that's pumping all this junk through
there over 50% of adults over 60% of
children and teenagers are consuming
alter processed food and they're getting
problems health problems that are treed
by big Pharma so this whole system
revolves around this one single Omission
the omission of actual real food like
right now there's a movement called food
is medicine I don't know if you've heard
of that before food is medicine it
sounds really great right food is
medicine doesn't really talk about food
until you dig deep into what they're
recommending and so I looked at their
food is
medicine and they're recommending
certain proteins they recommend a lot of
starches they're desserts apple cobbler
you know mac and cheese Cheerios cereal
we're just right basing everything on
the existing dietary guidelines so again
this is not going to work I think we
need to give kids credit to right
they're smart and so when you give them
the information and you give them that
you know that feeling of what it feels
like to feel good they they want that
they want to feel good right I mean we
had a kid who came in in fourth grade
failure to thrive his mom was like all
distraught and she had actually had my
cookbook but didn't realize I was the
lunch lady at her kids school was like
so you know we we talked and I supported
the kid and looked after him and lots of
bone broths and just really things that
were easy on his gut and you know now
he's like 62 a junior or so 10th or 11th
grade um in high school and he's
thriving and it didn't it didn't take
long it was just you know and I would
Source foods for her and get her organ
meats and different you know different
cuts of meat so that she can make meat
stocks and stuff so that communication
and that connection with the mom and the
care that went into this child just
quickly turned him around and now he
knows those diagnoses that kids have
don't have to be for life like it's just
so powerful when you give the kids and
the parents the tools to fuel the body
correctly you can't just take three
seconds with a kid and shove him through
the line and put Foods you know fresh
fruits and vegetables on there and think
this is going to change the whole
trajectory of their health I just don't
believe that I think you were really
needing to connect I've been practiced
for 30 years and so the first question I
ask every single person coming in kids
and adults is um you come in with a
problem what are you eating what are you
eating it's we don't ask that but I
don't think people appreciate the
connection between what you're eating
and uh these diagnosis as add or
attention deficit disord like all these
different mental disorders they don't
connect them with Foods right they get a
label even kids are becoming more
depressed nowadays it's like you
shouldn't be depressed as a child and
that can lead to drugs and addictions
and you know taking more medications and
so uh as we get older you can see the
end result of this a person in a nursing
home on 48 different medications that's
where we're going if we don't stop this
I know it's not easy it takes a lot of
energy right to be able to do all what
you're doing like it's not just a quick
thing you have to go find the food you
to learn about it you have to cook it
prepare it then you're teaching other
people how to do it so I mean I I'm just
like blown away yeah it's amazing I
think the other thing that we're doing
that is is a disservice to our children
is that these diagnoses are you know
kind of just their a lot in life and
there's nothing you can do about it
you're just going to be our medication
you know my child with eczema I was like
oh I'll probably have asthma eczema
allergies that just run hand in hand he
might outgrow it he might not I put him
on raw milk and codiv oil and he's
completely healed you know and I was
just like what food just healed my child
like you know right so it's it's
understanding the the power of food and
the power in the agency that we have and
so um getting to that root cause is so
important and much of that does lie with
what we're putting into our bodies I've
spotted this as something that's super
super important you have it right
because I'm like wow there's I looked at
a lot of different programs like I
didn't find anything that comes even
close to what you guys do and then then
to find out you have a training program
I'm like I'm going to get behind that
please donate if you can anything that
would be great and then um what we'll do
is we'll come back again look at the
success and the effects of um our
donations and how they help you guys
expand because um we need this to expand
all over the world because if we we're
not I'm not going to wait or the next
Food Pyramid we got to do something
right now any support we truly
appreciate it the training acmy are
lifechanging I'm literally like you
know 100% money back guarantee if your
life hasn't changed forever it just and
you just get it so I'm really excited to
get this message out to your followers
and thank you so much for sharing our
message and any support is just greatly
appreciated I really believe like you
said now is the time and we can't wait
it's just it's just time our children
need us awesome thank you very much
