today I'm going to discuss a very
important topic how to detoxify the
plastic out of your brain the
microplastics the brain accumulates the
most microplastics of all of the organs
the brain accumulates 7 to 30 times more
microplastics than the liver in the
kidneys today I'm going to talk about
how to get rid of this plastic not just
the Plastics but something else called
Forever chemicals they bind with
proteins in your blood creating all
sorts of problems especially as they
built up in it's called bio accumulate
over time this is a very important video
because if you can do something about
this now you can prevent a lot of
problems down the road in one report
that I saw an average person has 7 G of
plastic in their brain the first thing
you need to know about Plastics is the
big scam about plastic recycling as
simply a way to get you to keep buying
plastic items only 9% of all the
Plastics are able to be recycled the
vast majority of Plastics either they're
incinerated or the great majority of it
sinks to the bottom of the ocean if you
look on the the bottom of the plastic
containers you'll see a little it looks
like a recycling symbol just gives an
impression that oh yeah oh this can be
recycled well check out this clip right
here recycling is expensive and labor
intensive and making new plastic from
fossil fuels is almost always cheaper
forever Plastic industry documents
clearly concluded that there were no
effective Market mechanisms for mixed
plastic and that there is serious doubt
that it can ever be made viable on an
economic basis there was never an
enthusiastic
belief that uh recycling was ultimately
going to work in a significant way I
think they knew that the infrastructure
wasn't there to really have recycling
amount to a whole lot if the public
thinks the recycling is working then
they're not going to be as concerned
about the environment I will let you
know there are certain technologies that
are being created right now using
microbes that eat plastic and fungi that
can eat plastic there are certain types
of enzymes that are developed that can
eat plastic but until those are
developed there's really two things that
you can do number one avoid Plastics
which I'm going to get into and number
two we can do things in our body to help
detoxify some of this plastic in Forever
chemicals let's first talk about the
brain there is a type of lymphatic
system in our brain it's like a
dishwasher it helps clean up stuff that
system really occurs when you're getting
a really good amount of Deep Sleep high
quality deep sleep is going to be
necessary to help get rid of Plastics in
your brain another way we can get rid of
plastics is by inducing something called
autophagy where you're cleaning up some
of this toxicity the best way to induce
autophagy is through fasting you need to
fast for at least 18 hours to get into
some significant amount of autophagy the
thing with plastic sticks and forever
chemicals is it creates a lot of
oxidative stress which you can counter
if you have a strong antioxidant systems
in the body consuming foods high in
Sulfur that would be garlic onions
cruciferous vegetables there's other
natural remedies called NAC milk thistle
TKA are all great remedies now let's get
into the probably the most important
thing to get rid of the forever
chemicals as well as the Plastics if you
have City water boy you have to get a
water filter that can help remove
plastic find a good one with really good
reviews or a whole house unit let's go
through some other really important
things because you're going to be
surprised how you're getting Plastics
just with your routine that you do on a
daily basis with cooking plastic cutting
boards need to go you need to replace
those with wood cutting boards because
as you're cutting on the plastic you're
just kind of breaking up the plastic
particles and putting them right in the
food next one dishwasher pod you put
these little pods in there and you don't
even probably think twice you need to
replace those like I did with something
that doesn't have plastic coffee filters
have plastic so you want to get some
coffee filters if you use them the ones
that are more certified biodegradable
and as far as your sea salt goes I would
highly recommend getting a sea salt from
an ancient seabed not from the ocean
because unfortunately there are Plastics
in the ocean that end up in the salt
even tea bags can have plastic get the
tea bags that are more natural and then
our plastic Freight baby bottles of
course breastfeeding is the best thing
to do but if you can't do that get a
glass bottle now the problem is the
nipple is usually plastic and you can't
use a glass nipple it's going to be
really hard to find a
completely plastic free nipple even if
you get like the little nipple for the
bottle and it's just pure silicone it's
going to be a little bit better I would
go with that I would definitely start
getting a stainless steel water bottle
instead of the plastic bottles and fill
your own water with the water that you
can trust when you're at the grocery
store and you're buying cleaning things
get the plasticfree sponges and I'm just
putting this on your radar because you
probably didn't realize there are such a
thing but you just need to be aware of
it here's another source of a lot of
this plastic the inside layer of cans
even the canned carbonated water that I
used to drink a lot of I no longer drink
canned water cans are lined with this
thin layer of plastic you don't want
that I would avoid canned food canned
liquids what about toothbrushes they
have bamboo toothbrushes that actually
has the brushes out of bamboo not
plastic again another Simple Solution it
doesn't cost that much more all we're
trying to do is lessen the load of
plastics on your body your cookware uh
the Teflon get rid of those pots replace
it with stainless steel or ceramic I
would never heat anything in the
microwave in plastic ever also get glass
containers to store your food in not the
Plastics as much as you can of course if
you're eating popcorn that's from a bag
that you put in the microwave it's
completely lined with that plastic
really be careful of what you put in the
microwave dental floss is another hidden
source of some plastic I'm sure it's not
going to give you a lot but there are
dental floss products that don't have
Plastics or forever chemicals tampons
get the 100% organic cotton tampons if
you start now reducing the load of
plastics and forever chemicals on your
body this will prevent a lot of problems
down the road and I'm all about
preventing things unfortunately medicine
is not about preventing things medicine
is about doing screenings when you get
older every six months to kind of oh
we're catching the disease in a certain
state so then we can treat it with
medication early that's not prevention
screenings are not prevention what I'm
talking about in this video is actual
prevention so make note spread the word
and I will see you in the next video
