I'm going to show you how to use just
two ingredients to whiten your teeth at
home you don't need to go to the dentist
and do this very expensive procedure you
also don't even need to buy those
whitening strips this remedy is going to
cost you about $3 and it's super
effective if your teeth are a bit
stained like yellow from coffee tea red
wine or just getting older this will be
a great solution after the recipe I'm
going to also talk about oil pulling and
also some fascinating information about
leaky gums you can actually have a
situation where you're getting bacteria
that goes into your gums into your
bloodstream so that's going to be very
important to learn about that if you
want to make your teeth super white
there's two things you need to have
number one you need baking soda I found
baking soda at the store for
$1.79 this will add a certain texture to
this paste to allow you to scrub your
teeth and help remove the stain as well
as plaque it's gentle it's nonabrasive
number two you're going to need
something called hydrogen peroxide I
recently found some for $160 for an
entire bottle now it's very important
that you don't get the wrong hydrogen
peroxide you want the one that says
3% or less you do not want the one
that's like 15% or 40% that's going to
be way too strong and by the way the
main ingredient in these whitening
strips that You' buy online is hydrogen
peroxide but they charge you like 2030
$40 for these little strips you don't
need to do that then when you go to
dentist it's even more expensive and
they're using a very concentrated
hydrogen peroxide which is up into the
40s the problem with that is yes it does
work on making your teeth wider but that
super high concentrated hydrogen
peroxide on your gums with the
ultraviolet or LED lights that they put
at the same time that
intensifies that chemical reaction can
really mess with your gums and dehydrate
your actual teeth to the point where now
you have this sensation on your teeth
that they hurt because the concentration
is too high yes it'll work a little
faster but you don't want to put that in
your mouth here's what you're going to
do get a little container and you're
going to put one teaspoon of baking soda
in the container then you're going to
take the hydrogen peroxide 3% or less
and you're only going to use three drops
of it into this baking soda and then
eight drops of water you're going to mix
it up really nice and it's going to
actually break up the bonds of the stain
the stain is a certain chain of
molecules well the oxygen will break
that up and release this pigment from
your teeth causing you to have whiter
teeth this is why hyrogen peroxide is so
important then you're going to mix it up
take your toothbrush and gently polish
the outside of your teeth the inside of
your teeth this is also going to help
any bacteria that you have as well and
it's also going to reduce the plaque
formation you're basically going to
brush your teeth with this mixture for 1
to two minutes then you're going to
rinse out your mouth very thoroughly but
because the concentration is less than
40% that you would see when you go to
the dentist you're going to have to do
this a few times a week I would
recommend doing it two to three times a
week for a few weeks to see the big
change but it's going to work you will
be amazed and I do want you to comment
down below when you see the results the
whole point of this is to do it safely
and gradually this way you won't damage
your gums or the enamel on your teeth
that was simple now let's talk about oil
pulling you probably have heard this on
the internet where people are taking
coconut oil and they put it in their
mouth and they kind of swish it around
for a period of time right what is that
doing what is that all about this is
actually an ancient practice and they
didn't just use coconut oil back then
they used sesame seed oil so you can do
that too but coconut oil is less bitter
and it's a more of a pleasant taste and
it will work because what you're going
to do is you're going to take some
coconut oil and you're going to keep it
in there for 10 to 20 minutes you're
just going to keep swishing it around
your mouth coconut oil is very high in
something called lauric acid which is a
very powerful antimicrobial
for bacteria fungus candida and
especially the microbe in your mouth
that causes bad breath and there was
even a study in the Indian Journal of
dental research showing this procedure
as effective as prescription mouthwash
in reducing gingivitis most people do it
like three times a week I want to talk
about something even more interesting
the relationship between sugar or
glucose and vitamin C what I wanted to
reveal about this is that glucose has a
similar chemistry to vitamin C they
compete together you probably heard of
scurvy before scurvy is a disease that
happened to Sailors and other people way
back in the day where they basically did
not have enough vitamin C at that time
it wasn't even recognized one thing the
vitamin c does is support your collagen
when you're really deficient in vitamin
C you can get pink toothbrush because
your gums will bleed if you consume a
lot of sugar or chew gum a lot the
vitamin C that you're taking or from the
foods the glucose will block the vitamin
C from going in Sugar depletes vitamin C
from the body it'll definitely show up
as one of the first signs in the gums
you know you're flossing your teeth and
all of a sudden it bleeds easily that's
an early sign the cells in the tissue of
your gums are no longer like tight
they're kind of loose so you have these
holes very similar to having leaky gut
or even leakiness in your arteries that
would make a pathogen enter that area
and get into the body into the blood I
don't know if you know this fact but
they've isolated Dental bacteria in the
plaing of arteries and also in the
plaing in the brain and Alzheimer's we
want to keep the bacteria from going
into the body through the mouth thanks
for watching and I will see you in the
next video
